MIDIPitchEuclid

This is the standard MIDI version of the euclidian pitch bassline
generator. New features are:

- Base pitch for the generated bassline Selection of different scales
- Selection of the number of octaves the bassline comprises

The firmware uses two configuration pages, which can be selected by
pressing Button1 (top left) or Button2 (bottom left). On the first
page, you can select the number of different pitches in the bassline
(PTC), the number of pulses in the pattern (PLS) and the length of the
pattern (LEN). The pulses will be distributed equidistantly in the
generated bassline, for example PLS: 3, LEN: 8 generates the pattern X
. . X . . X . , while PLS: 2, LEN: 5 generates the pattern X . . X
. The start point of the pattern can be set with OFF. Pressing the
first encoder randomizes the pitches in the bassline.

On the second page, you can configure the destination MIDI channel of
the generated bassline. SCL selects the scale which is used to
generate the bassline. 0: ionian scale, 1: aeolian scale, 2: blue
scale, 3: major pentatonic scale, 4: major maj7 arpeggio, 5: major
min7 arpeggio, 6: minor min7 arpeggio. OCT selects the number of
octaves the generated bassline will span, while BAS selects the base
note of the generated bassline.

New feature: configuration of sync and merging. Hold down Button1 (top
left) and then switch the MiniCommand ON. CLK selects the input port
(IN1 or IN2), SND activates sending out of the clock on the MIDI
Output, and MRG selects which messages on the second MIDI input will
be merged into the output stream (CC, NOTE or SYX
messages). MonoMachine Sysex messages won't be merged correctly (for
now).

A note about MIDI sync: MIDI clock sync is necessary for the
slicing/repetition and the knob movement part to work. For this, the
MC needs to be synced to the clock of the MachineDrum. The simplest
way to achieve this is to configure the MD to send SYNC information on
its output. In the GLOBAL edit menu, select SYNC and set TEMPO IN to
INTERNAL, CTRL IN to OFF, TEMPO OUT to ON and CTRL OUT to ON. On the
MiniCommand, set CLK (in the configuration menu at startup) to
IN1. When START is pressed on the MachineDrum, the left LED should
blink synchronized to the tempo. Alternatively, if you are using
multiple synthesizers and sequencers, you can connect the clock source
to the second input of the MidiCommand, and select IN2 in the sync
configuration menu, and set SND to ON. This will duplicate the clock
and send it to the MachineDrum. On the MachineDrum, set TEMPO IN to
EXTERNAL and CTRL IN to ON. This way, you can easily chain a lot of
synthesizers. For example, we use 3 MachineDrums and 1 MonoMachine
with 4 MiniCommands on stage. Each MiniCommand is connected directly
to the sequencer it controls. The first MachineDrum generates the
tempo, and in order to start the chain, TEMPO IN is set to INTERNAL,
CTRL IN is set to OFF, TEMPO OUT to ON and CTRL OUT to ON. The first
MiniCommand is set to CLK: IN1 *and* SND: ON. This way, the clock of
the MachineDrum is set again to the MachineDrum, and available on the
THRU output of the MD. This THRU is then connected to the IN2 of the
next MiniCommand, which is configured to CLK: IN2, and SND: ON. The
clock is sent to the MachineDrum the second MiniCommand controls, and
is again available at the THRU output. From there, it is sent to the
IN2 of the next MiniCommand, etc...


