MDLFO

This is a quick firmware to control the LFOs of the MachineDrum
without having to enter the LFO menu. It's more a proof of concept of
how quickly I can bang out features with the new framework than
anything else.

The firmware allows you to control 4 LFO parameters of a selected
track. These four parameters are per default Shape 1 "SH1", Shape 2
"SH2", LFO trigger type "TYP, and the LFO speed "SPD". To select the
controlled track, hold down Button1 (top left), and select the track
with the first encoder. The MC will display the machine type of the
controlled track.

To configure the controlled parameters, hold down Button2 (bottom
left), and select the controlled parameter for each encoder by turning
it. Release Button2 to go back to the LFO control page.

New feature: configuration of sync and merging. Hold down Button1 (top
left) and then switch the MiniCommand ON. CLK selects the input port
(IN1 or IN2), SND activates sending out of the clock on the MIDI
Output, and MRG selects which messages on the second MIDI input will
be merged into the output stream (CC, NOTE or SYX
messages). MonoMachine Sysex messages won't be merged correctly (for
now).

New feature: automatic detection of global and kit. When connecting
the MC to the MachineDrum (both input and output), it will detect the
loaded GLOBAL settings and the loaded KIT. It will flash "LOADED KIT"
followed by the KIT name. This allows the MC to use the current
channel settings and the configured triggers for each track (set in
GLOBAL -> MAP EDITOR). It will reload the kit automatically every 3
seconds, and detect changes of GLOBAL and KITs. However, it won't
detect if the currently used GLOBAL has been modified, you need to
switch to another GLOBAL and then back to reload a GLOBAL. This is a
good way to detect if the MC is connected correctly. If it doesn't
load the KIT automatically, either IN or OUT is not connected
correctly.
