MNMWesenLivePatch

This is the firmware Wesen uses to play live with the MonoMachine. Its
features are: - revert to kit (reload all the stored kit settings) -
revert to track (like revert to kit, but just for the active track) -
two "magic" learning pages to learn parameters from the MNM - two
"template" pages allowing you to map 16 predefined control parameters
to control the current track - recording and overdubbing of knob
movements

New feature: configuration of sync and merging. Hold down Button1 (top
left) and then switch the MiniCommand ON. CLK selects the input port
(IN1 or IN2), SND activates sending out of the clock on the MIDI
Output, and MRG selects which messages on the second MIDI input will
be merged into the output stream (CC, NOTE or SYX
messages). MonoMachine Sysex messages won't be merged correctly (for
now).

A note about MIDI sync: MIDI clock sync is necessary for the
slicing/repetition and the knob movement part to work. For this, the
MC needs to be synced to the clock of the MachineDrum. The simplest
way to achieve this is to configure the MNM to send SYNC information
on its output. In the GLOBAL edit menu, select CONTROL and set CONTROL
IN -> TEMPO SYNC to INTERNAL, CONTROL IN -> TRANSPORT to IGNORE,
CONTROL OUT2 -> TRANSPORT to OUT and CONTROL OUT2 -> MIDI CLOCK to
OUT. On the MiniCommand, set CLK (in the configuration menu at
startup) to IN1. When START is pressed on the MonoMachine, the left
LED should blink synchronized to the tempo. Alternatively, if you are
using multiple synthesizers and sequencers, you can connect the clock
source to the second input of the MidiCommand, and select IN2 in the
sync configuration menu, and set SND to ON. This will duplicate the
clock and send it to the MachineDrum. On the MachineDrum, set TEMPO IN
to EXTERNAL and CTRL IN to ON. This way, you can easily chain a lot of
synthesizers. For example, we use 3 MachineDrums and 1 MonoMachine
with 4 MiniCommands on stage. Each MiniCommand is connected directly
to the sequencer it controls. The first MachineDrum generates the
tempo, and in order to start the chain, TEMPO IN is set to INTERNAL,
CTRL IN is set to OFF, TEMPO OUT to ON and CTRL OUT to ON. The first
MiniCommand is set to CLK: IN1 *and* SND: ON. This way, the clock of
the MachineDrum is set again to the MachineDrum, and available on the
THRU output of the MD. This THRU is then connected to the IN2 of the
next MiniCommand, which is configured to CLK: IN2, and SND: ON. The
clock is sent to the MachineDrum the second MiniCommand controls, and
is again available at the THRU output. From there, it is sent to the
IN2 of the next MiniCommand, etc...

New feature: automatic detection of global and kit. When connecting
the MC to the MonoMachine (both input and output), it will detect the
loaded GLOBAL settings and the loaded KIT. It will flash "LOADED KIT"
followed by the KIT name. This allows the MC to use the current
channel settings. It will reload the kit automatically every 3
seconds, and detect changes of GLOBAL and KITs. However, it won't
detect if the currently used GLOBAL has been modified, you need to
switch to another GLOBAL and then back to reload a GLOBAL. This is a
good way to detect if the MNM is connected correctly. If it doesn't
load the KIT automatically, either IN or OUT is not connected
correctly.

New feature: modified page switching. To switch pages in the
MNMWesenLivePatch firmware, hold down Button1 (upper left) and press
one of the encoders. The name of the corresponding page is shown above
the encoder: P0 (first automagic learning page, see below), P1 (second
automagic learning page), M0 (first template page, see below), M1
(second template page).

New feature: knob movement recording. When MIDI sync is enabled, you
can record knob movements for every encoder in every page. Make sure
that the sync is running (the left LED is blinking), hold down Button3
(bottom right), and turn the encoder while Button3 is held down. This
will record the knob movements as long as the button is held down (and
for a duration of 2 bars). When you release the button, the recorded
sequence is played back. You can overwrite the recorded movement by
holding down Button3 again, and moving the knob. This way, you can
easily evolve the recorded sequences. To clear a sequence, hold down
Button4 (top right), and press the corresponding encoder. This will
clear the recorded sequence. To clear all sequences, hold down Button4
(top right) and press Button1 (top left). The recorded sequences are
also cleared when the KIT on the MonoMachine is changed, when a new
parameter has been assigned to one of the encoders, or when revert to
kit or revert to track is used.

New feature: revert to kit. To restore all the stored kit settings
(like revert to kit when pressing FUNC + CLASSIC on a MachineDrum),
hold down Button1 (top left) and press Button4 (top right). The MC
will show "REVERT TO KIT" and the MonoMachine will revert to the
stored kit settings. Very useful when completely destroying kits :)

New feature: revert to track. To restore the stored settings of the
currently active track on the MonoMachine, hold down Button1 (top
left) and press Button3 (bottom right). This is like revert to kit,
but for the currently active track.

New feature: magic learning. The "P0" and "P1" pages are magic
learning pages that can easily MIDI learn 4 encoders at one. After
switching on, these four encoders are not assigned. Move some
parameters on the MonoMachine, switch to P0 or P1 and then press
Button2 (the bottom left button). The MiniCommand will MIDI learn the
last 4 moved parameters and display their names. This way, you can
move parameters on the MNM, then quickly assign these on the MC, and
switch to another page or track on the MNM while still being able to
tweak the previous parameters. This is incredibly useful when playing
live: you discover a nice sound combo, but want to modify something
else without losing the ability to tweak the previous sound.

New feature: magic template pages. The "M0" and "M1" pages are
template pages that allow to quickly map a range of parameters to the
currently selected track. Select the track you want to control on the
MonoMachine, switch to M0 or M1, and hold down Button2 (bottom left)
and press Button1 (top left). The MC will display "MAGIC PAGE", the
track number and the machine name on the track. Each magic template
page provide four "subpages" that can be switched to by holding down
Button2 (bottom left) and pressing one of the encoders. The parameters
on these subpages are mapped to the configured track. The subpages
are:

- "STD", which allows you to control the decay "DEC", the filter width
- "WDT", the delay send "DSN" and the delay feedback "DFB".  "DEL",
- which allows you to control the delay send "DSN", the delay feedback
- "DFB", the delay filter base "DBS" and the delay filter width "DWI".
- "FLT", which allows you to control the filter base "BAS", the filter
- width "WDT", the filter envelope decay "DEC" and the filter width
- offset "WOF".  "LFO", which allows you to control the envelope decay
- "DEC", the depth of the first LFO "DPT", the depth of the second LFO
- "DPT" and the depth of the third LFO "DPT".

With the template pages, you can quickly control combos of parameters
that are otherwise hard to access on the MonoMachine. For now the
subpages are fixed, but they will be user-configurable in the next
version of the firmware.
